[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> First of all, we have to
understand that as humans,
we are awakening out of the
illusion of our separateness
and our identification with our
bodies and our personalities.
And as we awaken,
as we pull back,
we listen clearly to hear
how we are to be on Earth.
What is our route,
what is our work
on Earth that allows
us to awaken fully?
How do we awaken fully
through what we do on Earth?
Now, at first, you are drawn
to one spiritual practice
or another.
Say you are drawn to devotion
because your heart's very open.
It's very easy for you.
So you would do
devotional practices
because they're very
natural for you.
And the philosophical
stuff or the zen stuff
wouldn't be attractive.
That wouldn't appeal
to you at all.
Later in your evolution,
you get to the point
where you want to be
free so badly that you
are drawn to the things that
are difficult because those are
the things that are
catchy, your places
where you're out of balance.
Like if your body energies
aren't working well
but your heart's
wonderful, you'll
find yourself wanting to
get your energies moving
because that's where
you're being blocked,
or you'll find yourself
wanting to develop
more discipline of mind.
Some people meditate
because it's natural to them
to meditate, and
other times they
meditate because they hate it.
And that's fine, too.
And you're guided by your
intuitive wisdom about that.
You see, at first,
that's the difference
between high and free.
In terms of listening
for unique manifestation,
you've got to understand
that the form is
in a world of anicca, or a
world of changing phenomena.
That everything's
changing all the time.
Now, that's very
critical because when
you're listening for your
unique manifestation,
you've got to
understand that what
you hear this moment may
be different than what
you hear a moment later.
And you have to deal with the
inconsistency and everybody's
expectations that you
will be consistent.
"What do you want to
be when you grow up?"
"Well, I think
I'll be a doctor."
And then you're trapped.
I mean, I remember
I said I wanted
to be a doctor when
I was nine years old,
and suddenly I had a microscope
and books on medicine,
and everybody said, he
wants to be a doctor.
And then it was really hard
to get out from under it.
I had to keep failing my
exams to get out of it.
You have to be ready
to know that what
you hear at one moment
about unique manifestation
is going to
constantly be changing
and changing and changing.
And you've got to be
listening afresh all the time.
You're listening for a
unique manifestation,
meaning that form of expression.
It's the confluence between
your karma and your dharma.
Karma meaning the unfolding of
the laws of cause and effect
that have created you
to be what you are,
and that are still
affecting you lawfully.
There's an unfolding law, like
a river, of you manifesting.
I mean, when you
think something,
you're not thinking
it out of a vacuum.
You're thinking it as a
result of how you've learned
to think things in the past.
Then how your parents
thought, and what
your chemistry is of your
brain, and all sorts of things
are affecting what you
think at this moment.
That's your karma.
Your dharma is that
which brings you home.
It brings you to truth.
It brings you to God.
It brings you to the oneness.
It brings you back
into the unity.
It brings you out of the
illusion of separateness.
The dharma is the
way or the path.
It's the root.
It's the appropriate action.
And so what you're doing as you
listen more quietly, you hear--
as you pull back more inside,
in a meditative space,
and hear more clearly--
you hear the way your
karma is unfolding.
And you hear, you intuitively
feel your root home.
And you keep feeling
these things together.
At one point, my guru--
I said, how do I know God?
He said, feed people.
And he said, serve people.
Now, that's in me somewhere.
That is my karma.
It's also my dharma.
I've tried to resist
it all the way along,
but every time I meditate,
and the quieter I get,
the more I feel I should
be out serving people.
So here I am.